Employee Spotlight: Dr. Steiner named Editor in Chief of Genetics in Medicine
Published on July 19, 2018
PreventionGenetics’ Chief Medical Officer, Dr. Robert Steiner, MD, FAAP, FACMG, has been named Editor in Chief of Genetics in Medicine (GIM) to succeed James P. Evans, MD, PhD, FACMG. Genetics in Medicine is the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics’ monthly peer-reviewed journal. Dr. Steiner has been involved with GIM since 2000, when he began reviewing for the journal. Since 2004, Dr. Steiner has authored or coauthored various publications in the journal and was asked to serve as Biochemical Genetics Editor in 2006. In 2011, he became deputy editor of the journal. 

A passion for publishing the results of his research led to Dr. Steiner's involvement with Genetics in Medicine. Later, through requests for him to review others’ manuscripts, he found that he also enjoyed manuscript reviewing. When Dr. Evans asked Dr. Steiner to serve as section editor at GIM, Dr. Steiner jumped at the opportunity. “I find medical and science writing, editing, and publishing fascinating. I derive a great deal of satisfaction from my involvement with GIM.” Dr. Steiner specifically enjoys receiving manuscripts from early career clinicians and scientists and assisting them as they work to publish their findings. Dr. Steiner noted, “It’s wonderful sharing in their excitement as they go through the process of having their work reviewed, edited, and published.”

When asked about his recent appointment to serve as Editor in Chief of Genetics in Medicine, Dr. Steiner reflected, “It’s a great honor to have been chosen for this position, and I’m grateful to ACMG and GIM leadership for their tremendous confidence in me. I’m excited about the opportunity to help shape medical genetics publishing over the next 5 years.” Dr. Steiner is passionate about working with the ACMG and Genetics in Medicine team, as he believes it is their work that allows the journal to thrive. James Weber, PhD, Founder and President of PreventionGenetics, said of Dr. Steiner’s accomplishment, “PreventionGenetics is delighted to employ Dr. Steiner as our Chief Medical Officer. He has made many valuable contributions to our lab, particularly with our exome tests. Genetics in Medicine made a great choice in appointing Dr. Steiner Editor in Chief.” 

 About Dr. Robert Steiner, MD, FAAP, FACMG

Dr. Steiner received his B.S. and M.D. degrees from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, completing pediatric residency at Cincinnati Children’s Hospital. He completed a fellowship in Medical Genetics at the University of Washington/Seattle Children’s Hospital. Dr. Steiner practiced as a medical geneticist, taught as a tenured professor, and carried out research at Washington University and OHSU for more than two decades.  More recently, he relocated to Wisconsin, where he practices as a medical geneticist at Marshfield Clinic Health System and the University of Wisconsin, and is an active, funded biomedical researcher with special interest in Batten disease, genetic bone diseases, metabolic diseases, and newborn screening among others.

Prior to joining PreventionGenetics in 2017 as Chief Medical Officer, Dr. Steiner directed the Marshfield Clinic Research Institute, served as Chief Medical Officer for Acer Therapeutics, and served on the faculty at the University of Wisconsin.
